{/* <!-- markdownlint-disable --> */}

Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP) facilitates the transfer of USDC
between distinct blockchains, providing a more streamlined experience. By
integrating CCTP with Circle Wallets in your applications, you enable seamless
USDC transactions across multiple chains. This reduces the need for users to
manage separate wallets for different blockchains, potentially broadening your
audience and providing increased liquidity and adaptability. It's designed to
provide users with a cohesive and efficient digital currency experience.

<Features>
  <Features.Feature icon="LightningBoltSolid">
    <Features.Feature.Title>
      Leverage Blockchain-Specific Attributes
    </Features.Feature.Title>
    <Features.Feature.Description>
      Use blockchain-specific characteristics to optimize your user experience.
      For instance, by bridging your ETH from Ethereum Mainnet to an Ethereum
      Layer 2 rollup, such as Polygon, you gain access to lower transaction fees
      while still enjoying the benefits of USDC.
    </Features.Feature.Description>
  </Features.Feature>
  <Features.Feature icon="SwitchHorizontalOutline">
    <Features.Feature.Title>Cross-Chain Swaps</Features.Feature.Title>
    <Features.Feature.Description>
      Enable cross-chain swaps, allowing users to exchange digital assets that
      reside on different chains. For example, users can swap AVAX for USDC on
      Avalanche, route it to Polygon Mainnet, and further swap it for MATIC
      token, expanding liquidity across multiple chains.
    </Features.Feature.Description>
  </Features.Feature>
  <Features.Feature icon="CurrencyDollarOutline">
    <Features.Feature.Title>Cross-Chain Purchases</Features.Feature.Title>
    <Features.Feature.Description>
      Facilitate cross-chain purchases with minimal effort. Users can utilize
      USDC on Avalanche to buy an NFT on Uniswap on Ethereum, then list it for
      sale on OpenSea. CCTP effortlessly routes the USDC from Avalanche to
      Ethereum for the purchase.
    </Features.Feature.Description>
  </Features.Feature>
  <Features.Feature icon="CubeTransparentOutline">
    <Features.Feature.Title>Solve Fragmented Liquidity</Features.Feature.Title>
    <Features.Feature.Description>
      Remove liquidity fragmentation barriers. If a user needs to send USDC to
      an address on Avalanche but only holds USDC on Ethereum, the solution
      becomes seamless. By bridging the USDC from Ethereum to Avalanche through
      CCTP, users can transact across different blockchains.
    </Features.Feature.Description>
  </Features.Feature>
</Features>

### Outcomes of this Interactive Quickstart Guide

By the conclusion of this interactive guide, you will learn how to facilitate a
transfer of USDC across blockchains using a Circle Wallet. Specifically, the
guide will demonstrate a scenario wherein a user conducts a USDC transfer
leveraging the Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol, CCTP V1. You will follow
step-by-step instructions to create and execute a USDC transfer from Sepolia, an
Ethereum testnet, to Mumbai, the Polygon Testnet, via a Circle Wallet. This
practical walkthrough is designed to equip you with the knowledge to implement
CCTP V1 in your own applications.

**Completing a Cross-Blockchain Transfer: Step-By-Step Process**

<OrderedList>
  <OrderedListStep title="Approve USDC Contract to Initiate Transfers">
    To utilize CCTP V1 effectively, it's necessary to authorize the USDC
    contract to conduct transfers on a user's behalf. In this guide, we approve
    only a small amount of USDC for demonstration. However, for operational
    efficiency, you might want to approve a larger amount to minimize the
    frequency of this action in a production environment.
  </OrderedListStep>
  <OrderedListStep title="Initiate the Burning of USDC">
    <Grid>
      <GridItem colSpan="12">
        Following the user's request to move USDC from Ethereum to Polygon,
        leverage the provided tools to initiate burning the specified amount of
        USDC from the Ethereum wallet created for this transaction.
      </GridItem>
      <GridItem colSpan="12">
        <Image
          src="/interactive-quickstarts/cctp/introduction/images/burn-usdc.png"
          alt="Burn USDC"
        />
      </GridItem>
    </Grid>
  </OrderedListStep>
  <OrderedListStep title="Obtain Circleâ€™s Attestation">
    <Grid>
      <GridItem colSpan="12">
        Circle monitors the burn event on the Ethereum blockchain and issues an
        attestation. Retrieve this attestation using the relevant procedures,
        which serves as the authorization required to mint the corresponding
        USDC amount on the Polygon blockchain.
      </GridItem>
      <GridItem colSpan="1"></GridItem>
      <GridItem colSpan="10">
        <Image
          src="/interactive-quickstarts/cctp/introduction/images/fetch-attestation.png"
          alt="Fetch Attestation"
        />
      </GridItem>
      <GridItem colSpan="1"></GridItem>
    </Grid>
  </OrderedListStep>
  <OrderedListStep title="Trigger USDC Minting">
    <Grid>
      <GridItem colSpan="12">
        Utilize the retrieved attestation to start the minting process. The
        attestation confirms the amount of USDC to mint on the Polygon
        blockchain, and the amount to allocate to the specified Polygon wallet.
      </GridItem>
      <GridItem colSpan="12">
        <Image
          src="/interactive-quickstarts/cctp/introduction/images/mint-usdc.png"
          alt="Mint USDC"
        />
      </GridItem>
    </Grid>
  </OrderedListStep>
</OrderedList>

### Understanding Smart Contracts

Smart contracts are computer protocols that automate the execution of
agreements, operating under a set of predefined conditions. Once deployed onto a
blockchain, they follow an "if-then" logic to perform actions automatically when
specific conditions are met. The immutable nature of blockchain ensures that the
smart contract code cannot be changed once established, which reinforces their
reliability as they always execute exactly as programmed. A smart contract
typically consists of code that defines its operations, a data storage area,
memory, and a unique public address that can be interacted with through its
functions. For a comprehensive exploration of smart contracts, you are
encouraged to read further on the dedicated
[resource](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/smart-contracts/).

### Exploring CCTP

CCTP serves as an integral tool in blockchain infrastructure to guarantee the
secure and seamless transfer of USDC across various blockchain networks. By
adopting CCTP, users can benefit from a protected and efficient means of
transferring USDC between [supported chains](/cctp/cctp-supported-blockchains).
To learn more about CCTP, see the [CCTP Overview](/cctp) in the Circle Developer
Documentation.

To get started,
[create a Circle Developer Services account](https://console.circle.com/signup)
in the console.
