---
title: Templates
description: Streamline Smart Contract Development and Empower Applications
sideNav: ""
tableOfContents: true
documentationItems:
  - title: Documentation
---

Smart contract templates ease how developers deploy contracts, allowing for the
seamless deployment of pre-audited contracts without needing to write any
Solidity code. When combined with Circle Wallets, the process becomes even more
straightforward. With just a few steps, you can select a template, choose your
wallet, provide the necessary contract deploy parameters, and deploy your
contract. This user-friendly experience is available through Circle's console
wallets or can be achieved using Developer Controlled Wallets via our API.
Simplify your contract deployment process and maximize efficiency with the power
of smart contract templates and wallets through the Circle ecosystem.

## Simplified Secure Smart Contract Development

Building secure smart contracts can be challenging and time-consuming. With our
pre-audited smart contract templates, you can leverage reliable, field-tested
code snippets for common on-chain use cases. This saves you from the burden and
cost of creating contracts from scratch or auditing them independently. Our
templates provide a fast and secure way to integrate smart contracts into your
applications, reducing development time and costs.

## Streamlined Blockchain Development Workflow

Managing the lifecycle of a production-grade contract often requires juggling
multiple tools, leading to complexity and inefficiency. By consolidating key
features of blockchain development within Circle Contracts, we simplify your
workflow and reduce fragmentation. Our platform provides a unified interface for
viewing contract details, interacting with contracts, and deploying new
contracts. This consolidation lets you focus on developing your application
rather than wasting time managing disparate tools.

## Elimination of Web3-Specific Nuisances

When working with web3 development, you often face nuisances such as private key
management, gas costs, and team permissions. Our platform alleviates these
challenges by providing a developer wallet designed specifically for web3
development. The developer wallet facilitates seamless management of gas costs
for all write operations, eliminating the need to handle gas calculations
manually. By abstracting these complexities, our platform allows you to focus on
the core functionalities of your smart contract application, saving you time and
effort.

## Curated Templates for Popular Use Cases

Our collection of smart contract templates spans a wide range of popular
on-chain use cases. Our team has meticulously curated these templates and
sourced them from trusted external partners and public repositories. We ensure
that each template undergoes a thorough auditing process by third-party auditors
for enhanced security and reliability. Whether you need templates for NFT sales,
token transfers, or other everyday use cases, our curated selection provides a
solid foundation to build upon tried-and-tested templates.

In conclusion, our Smart Contract Template provides access to pre-audited,
reliable smart contract templates that simplify your development process, reduce
costs, and enhance the security of your applications. By streamlining the
workflow, eliminating web3-specific nuisances, and offering curated templates
for popular use cases, our platform empowers you to build smarter contracts
efficiently. Start leveraging our templates today and experience the benefits of
streamlined smart contract development.
